feat(android): getNotificationSettings support (#237)
invertase/notifee: docs/react-native/docs/android/permissions.md

---
title: Permissions

> description: Android device grants permission for notification by default

Reviewer: This does not seem like a good description, when the page is about android permissions in general

```suggestion
description: Understanding and Checking Android notification permissions
```

next: /react-native/docs/android/progress-indicators
previous: /react-native/docs/android/interaction
---

# Understanding permissions

> On Android, notification permission is granted by default. However, a user may revoke notification permissions later through various means. In addition, a user may manage or revoke this notification permission at any of three levels; application-wide, channel groups and channels. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Android, notification permissions are granted by default. However, a user may revoke them later through various means. In addition, a user may manage or revoke permissions at any of three levels; application-wide, channel groups and channels. 
```

> # Checking permission

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Checking permissions
```

For each level, you can check whether notifcation permission is enabled on as-need basis or with event listeners.

## Application wide

> To check whether the user has enabled application-wide notifications, call [`getNotificationSettings`](/reference/getnotificationsettings). The `authorizationStatus` attributes will returns `0` if user has disabled the permission, and `1` if it's granted.

Author: Agreed that it should be an enum, we can use `ALLOWED`, `BLOCKED` ,`PROVISIONAL`.   For `PROVISIONAL`, it will only be for iOS?

> To check whether the user has enabled application-wide notifications, call [`getNotificationSettings`](/reference/getnotificationsettings). The `authorizationStatus` attributes will returns `DENIED` if user has denied the permission, and `AUTHORIZED` if it's granted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check whether the user has enabled notifications for your app, call [`getNotificationSettings`](/reference/getnotificationsettings). The `authorizationStatus` attributes will returns `DENIED` if user has denied the permission, and `AUTHORIZED` if it's granted.
```

async function checkNotificationPermission() {
  const settings = await notifee.getNotificationSettings();

  if (settings.authorizationStatus == 1) {
    console.log('Notification permission has been granted');
  } else if (settings.authorizationStatus == 0) {
    console.log('Notification permission has been denied');
  }
}
```

In some cases where notification is disabled, you might want to give an option for user to open notification settings to enable it. After you have setup your UI, you can use Notifee's [`openNotificationSettings`](/reference/opennotificationsettings).

## Channels & Channels Groups

To check whether the user has enabled notification for specific channels or channel groups, call either [`getChannel`](/reference/getchannel) or [`getChannelGroups`](/reference/getchannelgroups). Both of these functions will return a respective object with `blocked` attributes in it.

```js
import notifee from '@notifee/react-native';

async function checkChannelPermission() {
  const channel = await notifee.getChannel();

  if (channel.blocked) {
    console.log('Channel notification has been disabled');
  } else {
    console.log('Channel notification has been enabled');

>   }

Reviewer: If the attribute is called "blocked", we should really decide on two words to represent the two states and use them everywhere.

I consulted the APIs and they appear to use "enabled" and "blocked". So in all cases I would propose we use those words if possible - attribute names, API / method names, documentation here

Author: We will be using `enabled` for allowed state, and `blocked` for not-allowed state, correct?

>     console.log('Channel notification has been authorized');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    console.log('Channel is denied');
```

>     console.log('Channel notification has been denied');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    console.log('Channel is authorized');
```

}
```

> For more understanding on channels, you can refer to [Channels & Groups](react-native/docs/android/channels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> For more understanding on channels, you can refer to the [Channels & Groups](react-native/docs/android/channels) documentation.
```

## Permission events

> For listening to permission change events, refer to [Listening to channel events](react-native/docs/android/channels#listening-to-channel-events).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For listening to permission change events, refer to the [Listening to channel events](react-native/docs/android/channels#listening-to-channel-events) documentation.
```
